[MUSIC PLAYING]
We've had an interesting variation on what everyone's drinking.
Not the same as we usually do.
I have blueberry green tea, and I'm following that up
with Trader Joe's sparkling blueberry lemonade water.
Blueberry kick.
Yeah.
Wow.
Where'd you get the green tea from?
Also Trader Joe's, yes.
Conversely, I lived like a week ago.
I got bold and tried a blueberry cider from Nockin Noggin,
or that's the name of it.
I don't know what it was.
All I know is it was one of the worst things
I've ever tasted in my entire life.
And I did the full on, like, to my partner.
I'm like, oh, here, this is terrible.
You got to try this.
And to her credit, she gave it a shot and was--
and like, winced, like, fizzily winced.
Do you just not like blueberry, or was it just--
was it implemented poorly?
I love blueberry.
That's why I gave it a shot.
I don't know what they did do it.
It was a calamity.
It had some element of blueberry in it.
Like, it wasn't like it was just deviated from blueberry too
far.
It had all these other spice, like, non-complimentary spices
and crap in it.
And it had-- yeah, like, you drink something
and it'll have, like, you got your initial flavor,
then there's, like, the aftertaste.
This was a roller coaster afterwards.
It was-- like, it had an aftertaste,
and then, like, it kind of faded out,
and then it came back in, and then it was strong.
It was-- yeah, it was a good, like, three or four-minute adventure
just after you finished that first set.
Sounds horrible.
Yeah, I feel like there's not much that complements blueberry
well, except more blueberry.
Yeah.
That might have been where they screwed up.
It was trying to, like, add something.
If it was just a, like, a more simple formula,
it might have worked better.
I've been eating a lot of blueberries in my breakfast, too,
and there's just not much you can mix with it, you know what I mean?
Like, if I dice up an apple or a banana,
you know, I could put peanut butter with banana or cinnamon
and almonds with apple, whatever the fuck, like, blueberry.
It's, like, just blueberry.
Like, anything else is just kind of--
comes nasty.
It's good stuff.
I in antioxidants.
I could fuck with, like, blueberry on oatmeal.
Mm-hmm.
Yeah.
Like, you know, something that doesn't have much competing
flavor.
This is now a breakfast podcast.
[LAUGHTER]
What are you drinking, Dave?
I am just drinking coffee.
I'm drinking warm coffee.
I've switched over from--
Whoa.
--iced coffee.
Yeah, where's the ice coffee, Dave?
Yeah, it's-- well, mainly because I didn't--
it wasn't prepared ahead of time.
And so this is the pot that was made, like, an hour ago.
And I was like, OK, fuck it.
I'm just going to drink warm coffee.
It's delicious.
It's not as good as ice coffee.
But it is also the middle of winter,
so maybe compromises can be made.
It's delicious, though, from a big dog.
It's their blend.
Oh, nice.
What about you, Nick, what are you drinking?
Drinking some black tea that I got.
This aged black tea.
It's really delicious.
From white to tea, it's this, like, Chinese tea importer.
And you can get, like, ridiculous teas from them,
and they're all really cheap.
It's amazing how much, like--
everything I get, it's, like, 80 cents a day
to drink, like, the best teas in the world.
Because it's just fucking cheap to get a big bulk tea, you know?
Mm-hmm.
So it's delicious, though.
That requires brewing, though.
It does.
Yeah, I can't do that.
It means too much.
It's too much responsibility.
Different types of brewing, too.
You can do your Gong Fu style brewing,
which is just in a tiny pot for, like, a few seconds.
Or you can do the grandpa brewing,
which is what most people do, which is just throwing leaves
in a pot for a while.
Which one do you do?
It depends on the tea.
With this, I did it a little more grandpa,
because it's a black tea, and it's good like that.
But some things would be kind of nasty that way,
if they're a little strong or, like, aged or fermented a little.
Now, Earl Grey is a black tea, right?
You know, there's all tea that comes from, like, one leaf,
and it's just how oxidized it is that makes it, like,
a different kind of tea.
I like Earl Grey, and I fully admit
that I started drinking it because of Jean-Luc Picard.
I was just going to say, because I saw it right.
Yeah, 100%.
100% hot.
And that is what I say every time I make it.
Yeah, I think it's just a black tea with Bergamot.
And that's pretty much what an Earl Grey is.
I like Earl Grey, too.
I'm similarly, though, like, every time I try to get into tea,
or, like, oh, I should drink more of that
instead of just coffee all the time.
I'm just too lazy.
That's the only reason why I'm getting back into tea,
because Trader Joe's already has a brood and flavored,
and it's in a bottle, like, convenient.
It was actually Shawn Dementia that got me back into tea.
A little bit.
Yeah.
Oh, nice.
I'm just trying to introduce caffeine back into my diet
after not having any for, like, six, seven years now.
Yeah.
So I figured this green tea was a nice way to ease back into that.
There's something about the idea of not having a near constant IV
drip of caffeine in your life that is in the comprehensible to me.
It is for me as well.
Like, you know how dependent on it.
I was when I drank it.
You know what I mean?
But I eliminated it to try and help with my insomnia and my anxiety attacks, but honestly,
cutting it out over the last few years hasn't really made any fucking difference.
So I'm also going to keep drinking caffeine and get the productivity boost.
I could definitely use that from time to time.
It just gets me back to zero.
Yeah.
Right, right.
Balance is yelled.
Yeah.
I don't know, actually.
It's so long since I even bothered to try to quit.
Coffee used to make me extremely jittery, but, uh, and like, you know, sweaty palms and
like anxiety and shit like that.
But at the same time, it also made me able to actually focus on things like, I think
most of the music that I made with Prometheus stuff was on lots of caffeine.
You know what I mean?
I'd go down to the beehive, get a triple shot on ice, come back and start working on shit.
Like that was my routine.
Probably wouldn't have been able to do it without caffeine.
You know what I mean?
It's like...
That's what I like about tea is that, um, thionine chemical like balances the caffeine
out and it's really hard to get jittery because I'll have like six like small pots of tea
a day.
It's like way more than enough.
Um, but it never like fucks me up as much as like a quad shot will kind of.
Which I like.
I'd never, like you said, Dave, I never quit.
I can't imagine like quitting caffeine.
I just go between coffee and tea.
Sometimes both.
But I'm in a heavy, heavy tea phase.
It's been fun.
So it's the end of 2020 here.
Yeah, let's give some context here.
We are not socially distanced in my backyard.
We are back to recording remotely.
Yup, yup.
Via Discord.
Cause people can't do the simple thing of putting on a fucking mask.
No being mildly responsible.
Impossible.
I feel like we've been like, I don't remember how like much we've torn into like anti-maskers
and basically people making this problem a lot longer and shouldier than had to be.
I mean, no matter how much we've torn into them, I will say it's probably not enough.
Never enough.
Yeah, yeah.
Fuck them.
And if there's someone who's listening and you know, getting pissed.
Good.
Now as good a time as any to hop off.
Yeah.
Please.
Your stop.
We're using Discord and with cameras so we can see each other at least.
Yeah.
It's too nice.
We'll at least see each other this time around, you know.
That was a setback I think with the other ones we did via Discord where we didn't have
cams.
It's hard to read each other's feelings on shit as we discussed it.
Right.
After being used to all sitting at a table next to each other and bullshitting.
The true way.
Yeah.
At least we had one good get together this year.
Yeah, that was good.
A very cautious one, but it was fun nonetheless.
Well, it was around Halloween.
The only holiday we're celebrating.
True.
Well, that made a, but yeah.
So it was a good one.
It wasn't like we were like, we got together for Thanksgiving or some bullshit like that.
No colonizer shit.
Just a good Halloween.
Exactly.
Yeah.
Why can't every day be Halloween?
It bothers the song.
It just said.
Yeah.
Oh, oh, oh.
So this is the end of December.
We are recording this.
I don't actually know what date it is.
I don't either.
Anyone.
Oh, you know, I got stuck in a wormhole on the internet last night.
I had the bright idea of like, why don't I look at your Iraq Reddit and what pissed me
off was holiday songs being played on modulars.
I listened to a few of them and I'm sorry, but it was upsetting to me.
I'm sorry, people.
You don't hear someone's rendition of jingle bells made on Lucas games?
No, I don't.
I don't.
Were they like, Ernest?
Were they like, like, I'm going to make a good holiday song and it was like what you
might hear on like a Hallmark special.
They weren't terribly produced videos.
You know, I'm sorry.
I just don't like it.
I hate it.
But it wasn't like switched on holiday music or anything like that.
Like, like, sounded like super electronic.
Like it was like.
It was kind of like who.
Yeah, like it somehow had that quality to it.
That's just like, oh, that's kind of a shitty patch to, you know?
I'm setting listeners.
It's okay.
Got to keep it real.
Yo, thanks to quarantine.
My exposure to shitty holiday music has been like absolutely nil.
Like, I think I heard, what the fuck was I?
I was, I think it was like CVS.
I went up there to grab like some essentials and they had holiday music playing the other
day.
And that's like my only exposure to it that I've had so far.
It's been pretty nice.
So who's got something that they want to kick it off with?
Yeah, I was going to start with my 2020 roundup.
Yeah.
Like what I considered to be my top three picks of the year.
Oh.
Top three.
I can do a top three.
Can you do a top three Dave?
Yeah, how about you Dave?
You got three?
I do have a top three.
But one thing I did want to say is maybe before we got into listing is we had mentioned
at one point we were talking about over quarantine, doing DIY stuff and then not doing DIY stuff.
And I have a bold rash announcement.
You do.
I finished my Sonic Potions LXR.
Fuck yeah.
Let me borrow that shit.
Mostly now I'm pissed that I didn't do it earlier.
I told you you would be.
Yeah.
It's fucking awesome.
I knew you would dig it.
I regret selling mine like every day.
Oh yeah, this is this is already cold dead hands type of stuff.
I'm not.
I can't see getting rid of this.
And the build wasn't even that bad.
Like I think maybe I just had in my head like there's a lot of parts, but it was you know,
it was a weekend to do it and the IO expander.
And yeah, as soon as I started using it, I was like, what did you wait so fucking well?
Even within quarantine, I should have just done that in like the second week.
Like fuck it.
We're going to be here forever.
Yeah.
Then I got the Brennan Clark's alternative firmware.
What's that?
Put it on it.
It's very similar to the 0.37 has a lot of similarities.
It's just a lot of it's a bunch of like little small quality of life improvements that are
actually really fucking useful.
It's worth getting because it's free and you just put that bin file on your SD card and
load it up dirt fucking civil.
But yeah, no, I've a I just want to mention that I actually finished something and I'm
glad I did.
That's awesome.
B it was fucking amazing.
Like I'm fucking in love with this thing.
I love the LXR.
My biggest complaint with it was the lack of knobs and control over the parameters, you
know what I mean?
I didn't have like a MIDI control or anything hooked up to it to help with that.
So I used it extensively on the MECA album and then I sold it and I've missed it ever
since and every once in a while, like I'll see one pop up used and I'm like, ah, should
I get that?
And then I saw that there's that whole 60 knobs from Bastol.
Yeah.
And for that, I would have never sold it for sure.
That makes me kind of want to get one again.
I just don't want to fucking build one.
So I'm like trying to keep an eye if a nice looking one pops up at a reasonable price.
I would probably grab it again for sure.
It still ended up taking me a full weekend.
I mean, it was, you know, and that's you building it like you're compared to me fast,
you know, and skilled with a soldering iron like that would probably take me fucking weeks
to do and I'd probably fuck it up multiple times.
Yeah, I remember when I got mine, I remember it was snowing years ago and I built just
the stock kit.
It was a full like eight hours.
Like, I remember you saying it was like a full day.
Yeah.
And then the expander came out a little later and that was like a couple hours or something
like that.
Yeah.
I built the expander from mine and even that was like a full day for me.
Fuck man.
I don't really want to know what it looks like.
They're good.
They sound like the quality of it too.
I just really like the high hats as you probably figured out.
It's like where the FM love is kind of.
Yeah.
Okay, I'm glad other people agree with that because that was actually one of the things
I was doing with it the most was making hats.
Like I have, you know, my electron cycles now, which to me gets me into semi-LXR territory
that I was using it for, but the hats are kind of trash.
I just don't like the metal algorithm on air for hats and the other algorithms or I
guess I shouldn't say algorithms, the other machines in there don't do hats as well as
I like them.
You know what I mean?
Like the LXR like there was just some really nice crisp crunchy lo-fi hats that you can
get out of it and you can do all the micro steps with it and do some nice rolls and shit.
I fucking loved it for that.
I think all the hats on the Mecha album came out of my LXR.
I think going through the Sherman filter bank for added distortion and shit like that.
I like the separate outs.
Like who sets a stereo pair as?
Being able to just be like, okay here, you guys are going to be the clean ones and you're
the one that I'm going to route into the modular and process.
Yeah, the bass drums on it though, kick drums are fucking fantastic on that thing.
It's...
Yeah.
Sorry.
Zero complaints.
I struggle to think of a machine up until the rhythm that I was like so productive with.
You know what I mean?
Then the LXR.
Like I was just able to get a lot of mileage out of that.
Yeah.
I don't know.
I miss it for sure.
I think I need to get one again.
Yeah.
Every time I find myself tempted by a machine drum again, I'm like, oh wait, why when there's
LXRs out there and I can get instead.
I had a machine drum craving a couple weeks ago and realized like, hey, they're still
now they're like a grand just for like a kind of shitty stock one.
Yeah.
It's just not...
I saw the full blown one are going for like two grand now.
I was like, yeah, I was like, what?
That's what happened.
I remember a couple years ago when they were going like back down to like 600 to 800 bucks
and now suddenly they're like, I guess in flavor again, I don't know.
So 2020 is wrapping up quickly.
Thanks.
Oh, yeah, this will not be missed.
Before we get into our top lists, one of the things I was thinking was a lot of this
stuff is like kind of border 2019.
Like 2020 didn't see a lot of new stuff overall.
Not a terrible amount of stuff.
Not at the rate we had been coming into this year with.
Right.
A lot of stuff did kind of trying to not unexpectedly given the circumstances.
I think that was an issue that was going to be an issue this year pandemic or not because
I like went back and looked at like some of our previous episodes towards the end of the
year like from knob con on from between knob con and name like there was nothing on the
horizon that like any of us were like hyped up about with the exception of getting a hydro
sense.
Right.
There was just like nothing.
You know what I mean?
Like the supply chains were kind of fucked up before the pandemic and that kind of crushed
them too.
So a lot of people can't even make modules right now on top of it being like we were talking
about it being at the saturation point before.
Is it like, you know, where are you really going to go now?
That's not something digital or something that's just, I don't know.
I think I think that over saturation is what has been pushing me into pedal territory because
there's just some fresh ideas happening in pedals right now that is not really happening
in modular format.
Like, you know what I mean?
Like there's just a lot of the same thing being reproduced a hundred different ways right
now in Euro rack.
Which is a shame because it used to be the opposite.
Right.
This used to be the frontier of like interesting stuff.
But I think, you know, that was 10 years ago.
Well, I think this why pedals are having some interesting things happen right now is because
like they've been working on these ideas obviously for the last year or two trying to
compete with modules, you know, trying to come up with something different.
And it seems like they're succeeding, you know, like there's a lot of interesting like
microcosm is essentially like a clouds on steroids.
You know what I mean?
Like it just seems to like play into that very specific sound that people were using
clouds to generate and just focusing on that and blown it out.
You know what I mean?
So all these ways to achieve that faster and almost effortlessly it seems like on some
of the demos that I'm seeing, you know what I mean?
Like to get certain things like that out of clouds, it requires very specific types of
modulation and you know what I mean?
And sweet spots.
So I mean, do you think the fact that it's a pedal and you know, you're you need to shy
away from having a lot of controls lends itself to that quickness of A to Z getting the sound
that you want that maybe having the million options and a million inputs and outputs and
modular ends up being a little bit of a detriment to, you know, what I just want to sound.
Exactly.
Like there was there was absolutely people who were buying clouds but didn't want to get
that deeply into modular, you know what I mean?
And like who were probably intimidated by all the CV functionality and trying to learn
how to use clouds and things like that, they just saw a few demo videos and they're like,
I want that.
I want to run my guitar into that or my synth into that and get this sound that I hear in
this demo.
And so they're you know, they would have to go out on a limb and jump into modular even
if it's only, you know, dip in a toe to get that.
Now they don't have to.
Now here comes a pedal and they're like, Oh, great.
You know what I mean?
Here comes microcosm which does all this.
I don't have to worry about CV.
You know, I don't have to worry about Iraq and power for modules.
Like, you know, does it have like a modulator on board?
Yeah, it has some internal modulation stuff going on.
There you go.
But a lot of that I don't even think you can control like a lot of it just seems to be
like doing its own magic under the hood.
They've decided what is the best or what is popular or the thing that if you bought
this, this is probably what you want.
And if you're right, 99 out of 100 people that buy it, it's going to work for those
people.
And if you are someone who's like, well, this isn't exactly what I want.
Well, then go get clouds and a bunch of modulation.
Like, if you watch videos for microcosm, they all sound 100% the same, you know what I
mean?
But like, it's that's a very focused sound that like people wanted, you know, to get
out of clouds and other, you know, I don't even know what to really call that.
I guess granular style effects, you know, and like the Chase Bliss pedal, it's the
same thing, you know what I mean?
Like they all seem to be piggybacking off of things like clouds and other modules that
we're doing that type of thing.
So do you see the future being the path of module comes out?
People use it a bunch.
Everything sort of like funnels or converges into well, here's, you know, a good typical
sound for that module and then it becomes pedal-ified.
Maybe.
I mean, it's definitely happening with a few specific sounds right now.
Just like the, you know, the lo-fi thing as well, you know what I mean?
Like, people want that instant boards of Canada sound.
They don't want to have to use seven different modules to get there.
So pedal makers have been cranking out some very interesting lo-fi pedals that will get
you there with minimal effort, you know?
Yep.
And I can see why they would keep going because, you know, the attempts to make modular pedal
boards kind of failed, you know, multiple people tried it and it never caught on.
Nobody wants to go that route.
Yeah.
It's still, it's still ultimately too complicated.
You are, you know, you're, that's not your, that's our focus.
Like, as people that are really interested in this stuff, you know, we want that kind
of control and we want to figure with that for hours on end.
And someone else just goes, I've got notes.
I've got to work with this band.
I've got this, all these other considerations.
I need to hit that button and it makes it sound like this.
You know, maybe like a knob or two to control certain things, but the reality is they want
it to be streamlined and very, very few options.
Yeah.
Like look at the Poly effects BBO, you know, like that was, that was meant to be a guitar
pedal at first.
And like, it seems like a lot of guitar people were like, what the fuck, you know, like,
I don't want to deal with that.
But like modular synth people were like, this is fucking great.
This is like a mini, you know, modular that I can have in a little pedal board, you know,
it's like synth nerds definitely are eating up those types of things more so than like
the guitar and pedal enthusiasts.
Um, so is that what you see is like 2020 having a lot of because that's not something
I like, frankly, I wasn't paying that close attention to it.
I knew about the digit stuff, but like the stuff, like the stuff you've rattled off.
I didn't know about.
Yeah, I think the most innovation, at least in my opinion, over the last year was in the
world of pedals.
Um, from like mid 2019 to late 2020, there was a shit ton of really interesting pedals
that came out to do very specific types of sounds that previously you'd probably only
find in modular or with a combination of pedals and secret sauce, you know, and they're coming
up with refined, you know, all in one pedals that can achieve that specific effect or processing
sound.
And that's kind of cool.
I was always bummed that we didn't see more of the interesting pedals that have existed
over the last 10 years get ported into modular.
And I always thought that that is something that they would do, but there's still not
a lot of that happening.
We got like the Magneto from Strymon.
We got the afternith from the Dwarfcraft and stuff like that.
Buzz factory.
Yeah.
But there's WMD.
There's a few.
Yeah.
But and most of the time, like they don't seem to be, I don't know, like they don't seem
to be a better option over the pedal the a lot of times, you know, unless you're just
looking for some CV.
Yeah.
It seems like they've just took that take them, taken the pedal, added a couple of modulation
points and put, you know, change the power source.
It doesn't seem like it's a massive innovation or deviation.
The pedal is still a viable option when you're looking and comparing it to the module on
a lot of cases.
Yeah.
I guess what I'm trying to say is I'm surprised that when someone releases a pedal in this
day and age that they also don't have like a modular version of it that comes out at
the same time, you know, like there still seems to be with a few exceptions, a very distinct
line between pedals and modules, you know.
I feel like at one time I had a lot more pedals.
And now I don't have it.
I don't have a single pedal.
CV controlled effects or just effects in modular weren't nearly as popular at the outset too.
Yeah.
ZDSP was kind of a revolution.
And now it's like there are tons of things like that or at least, you know, it's crazy
how many effects we have now and stereo or is before that shit didn't exist.
And there's still a lot that I don't consider that good either.
You know what I mean?
Like, yeah.
A lot of the sex is where there's a lot of room for growth in modular.
Yeah.
Like, why hasn't Evan Tide done something that's like, you know, they made that delay
module, but they haven't really done, you know, I'm sure they don't want to do an H9
as a module.
And I could see why because it would kind of kill that market, even though they stopped.
I think they just stopped making those out, right?
But they've never done like a real module that we've leveraged like they're crazy,
like a like a black hole version or something or just like, I don't know, they haven't
gone there.
I could see why too, because they're like kind of high end, you know, and how much like
are people willing to spend on a single module?
Some people like bitch a lot if something's like 600 bucks or like a rain maker and how
expensive it is.
And it's like, well, like, would you rather it not exist, you know, like, I know it's
expensive, but there's a point where like that shit deserves like, you know, how much
is an H9000?
Like that shit's like five or six grand or something like that.
Yeah.
And if they put too much power to module, then it's like, what the fuck am I going to buy
that?
Like looking at something like Paul, Trevor, posting about the evolution of the Hyperion,
because it's also expensive, but I think complaints are a little bit less because it's
like, oh, I'm I've watched this guy's putting a ton of work into this.
This is this is their job.
And I'm paying not just for capacitors and resistors.
I'm paying for all of the all of the work that went into all of the work that, you know,
the program were put into this really getting a better sense of why these models maybe
cost away as much as they do.
I don't know.
Maybe I'm hoping like that sort of visibility into the entire process from start to finish
might make these price points a little bit more understandable.
Yeah, that thing's a fucking steal, honestly, in the Hyperion for what it does.
Like, no, but nothing else out there does that.
The H9 is probably your closest bet.
And that's like fucking way more expensive.
But if Paul had been just sort of like, you know, in his house, popped up said I'm doing
this, and then months later, put it out, the fact that he's just been really forthcoming
and transparent about the process.
I don't know.
Hopefully, like it lends people to understand that this is a really hard fucking thing to
do.
Yeah, it's not easy.
Not just porting a VST into a box, you know, like the audio damage effects.
Yeah, which that's what you get.
Right.
Surprisingly, there hasn't really been anything since then.
Like even that was something that I thought would see more of effects wise.
It was like people's, you know, VSTs being ported into the world of modular.
But yeah, there wasn't many.
Like audio damage did it.
And that one reverb that you the US verb kind of crashed and burned.
And that was the end of it.
Like you can't even get like simple little effects, you know what I mean?
And modular very easily.
At least not very good ones, you know.
So it's strange.
And those engineering with the other way, they took some of their modules and put them
in the reason.
Yeah.
Right.
And they're weird.
Like people would rather invest in like having effects coming out of like a teensy CPU.
And there's like that hardware focus.
And so that software world doesn't get bridged very often because of that software world
is, you know, it's not like easily portable.
That's like stacks of shitty code sometimes.
The Hyperion come out this year was at 2019.
I think it was late 2019, right?
I don't think they were shipped until 2020.
Okay.
Yeah, I don't think so.
There might have been a few units in fall of last year.
That's what I think he was still prototyping in like November last year.
I remember seeing like we were at Opcon.
Yeah.
And that was a still very crude.
I don't think anyone got it in 2019.
Nope.
And I don't think any of the three of us have it, right?
Yeah.
I don't know the rack space for it.
I still don't, but I could probably make some space for it at this point.
So I've sold a couple of things, but it's all my list of stuff to get eventually.
But like I wasn't in a major hurry because I knew that it was, you know, hard to get
at the moment anyway.
So I was like, okay, I don't have really the money or the space for it at this moment.
So I'm just going to, you know, put it on the back burner for now, but I know I'll get
one eventually.
The effects aid XL reduced my need for that quite a bit, you know?
Yeah.
That's a pretty powerful thing.
It's already got what three CV inputs.
The Hyperion's got four.
I know his algorithms are different, but that made it a lot less interesting to me.
I still don't have one and I've been kind of putting it off because I just noticed from
my own habits of buying things and selling things that usually the stuff that has multiple
purposes, I end up selling.
Like, I've realized over time that like, I like things that have a single purpose for
the most part, you know, like things that I don't have to think about.
Like the new noise engineering reverb, for example, like it's just doing reverb and like
I already have memorized my favorite sweet spots for the knobs, you know what I mean?
And I just plug something into it when I want that effect.
Like.
So you don't want the extra dimension of finding the sweet spot on one of 32 algorithms.
You like the idea that this is one.
You want algorithm and you can dial the fuck into it.
Yes.
And I think that's why the ZDSP has been a staple in my rig for many, many years now
because my halls of a holocard seldom comes out of it.
And it's like eight reverbs that I'm well versed in, you know what I mean?
I know where I want the three knobs to be for each of those algorithms.
And that's a that's a wrap, you know, like the the FX aid as appealing as it is, it's
also very intimidating to me.
And I know I'm going to get lost in like what's the word option paralysis decision.
Yeah.
You know what I mean?
Like, yeah.
And so I haven't gotten one yet.
Like even though I can do all those things, I feel like I might end up being less productive
with it because it can do all those things.
So I've been like biting my time.
There's a new effects unit that's supposed to be in the works and coming out soon from
chaos devices or ZOC as I like to call them.
But they it's going to have a screen and it's going to have like multifunctionality and things
like that.
And like just the fact that it has a screen and will tell me like what effect is what
and things like that.
It seems a little more stripped down.
I'm kind of waiting to see how that turns out because it's not too much bigger than the
FX aid.
I think it's meant to be like a weird bridge between like ZDSP and FX aid.
Like I think it has a card slot in the whole nine yards.
So yeah, I'm just kind of biting my time and seeing how that turns out.
I guess I can understand it.
I mean, for me though, the FX aid is still the effects are logically grouped.
So there'll be, you know, eight in a row of reverbs and delays and there'll be some number
in a row.
And so I've got, you know, I got to print out.
I'm doing some quick math in my head that is like, okay, I'm looking for numbers 12 through
18 or let me go try 24 through 30.
And then within those I'm like, okay, I'm going to dial into the effect I'm looking
for right then.
So even that much I find distracting.
Okay.
Like even though it's not much like you're just referencing like you print out and shit
like that.
Like I find that that fucking slows me down.
Like I used to do that with the black hole DSP and I found that annoying.
You know what I mean?
Like I don't know.
Even though it's not much, I don't want to have to reference a piece of paper every
time I want an effect.
I just wanted to know in my head, this is the effect I want.
I need to plug into this module to get it.
You know what I mean?
Like I don't know why it's just, it's only a couple extra steps, but it slows my role
enough where it can be severely distracting and fuck up my flow.
I've noticed.
Much about this in the past though.
I mean, these are how our brands work and we can fight it or we can lament.
I wish I could do this differently, but at some point you're just going to lean into
it and go, I know what works for me and what doesn't.
And it's not working for you and you know that's going to be more stressed than productivity.
Fucking don't do it.
That's what I've been working on.
I think 2020 was, I spent most of that of the year not buying more stuff, but just figuring
out what I don't need and trimming the fat and simplifying my rig into what I like the
most and that's controls up front, limited menu diving, limited multi-purpose modules,
more single purpose modules.
Even if that means eating up more rack space, I prefer it.
You know, it's like...
That could segue nicely into perhaps we can get into your top three, 2020.
My top three.
Yeah.
Did you say that top three?
I just feel like I babbled enough already, but yeah, I can shut up for a minute if someone
else wants to start with their top three.
Nick, would you like to start with your top three?
You start, Dave.
Me.
Yeah.
All right, I will start then.
I don't think this is a huge surprise considering how long I went into it last time, the module
of the year for me, and I just may not even really necessarily qualify.
It doesn't have to be module.
Just top gear of the year.
Right.
Well, does it have to have come out in 2020 or is it just like I got it in 2020?
I think we discussed this last time and we decided like if you got it in that year,
it counts.
I guess.
We'll count it.
Yeah.
Also, this is our rules.
We can make up, do whatever the fuck we want.
Right.
That's true.
But for mine, head and shoulders above everything else is the humble quad operator.
Yeah, yeah.
We don't need to re-litigate it because I went into depth last time about it.
Listeners can go back and listen to that episode if they're interested.
I guess the only thing I would like to add is it's not like I've changed my mind since
then.
It's actually only gotten better.
Now that I'm diving into it and getting into it more and pushing different things that
you know weren't obvious the first time.
Yeah, it's living up to what I'd hoped it would be.
And it's still right now.
It's the centerpiece of everything I'm doing.
So yeah, it's like I said, unsurprisingly, that is my top.
And that one was easy.
So going on to two and three FX-8 is number two, just because I'm getting, isn't every
patch now and everything sounds good.
It's still, I'm still surprised that it handles and makes everything sound good.
I don't understand what they did.
Anything specific?
Like are you just using it as a full on multi-effects or is there something in particular you find
yourself going to for every patch with it?
No, it's small.
And I have two of them now.
The original and the XL.
So now, I'm chaining them.
Fuck yeah.
I love chaining them.
And I'm not, like I don't feel like I'm going to the same well.
I mean, eventually over time, that's just what's going to happen.
I know my brain, you know, certain things work better than others.
So I will start using them more often.
I think that maybe it almost goes back to what you were saying, great.
Like everything sounds good.
So, you know, just as I'm going through, I have to keep track of like, okay, that's
not a good.
Okay, those two sound good.
That's not a good.
Okay.
There's about 20 combinations that sound good and I'm not going to start narrowing those
down into what, you know, what I actually want.
I could easily have four of them and keep them just on like, I do keep one on this specific
delay combo right now and it's like, I'd never change it.
I could see having like eight of them to be honest, just leaving them on effects and
not fucking changing it.
And I still have not added or changed the effects that came with it.
And that's probably going to change here soon just because they keep adding new stuff.
And one of you posted the, the Igor effects now.
The stereo filters that dropped today, they look pretty sick.
Yeah, they sound good.
I think, I think my time of using the stock and not screwing around with changing them
is, is nearing an end, at least for one of them.
I'll probably keep the XL as is and use the, the original one as the, the, the guinea pig
for trying the new stuff, just fill the whole thing up with a bunch of stuff that I don't,
you know, like basically trying out, there's enough new stuff that I can have an entirely
separate new bank and start experimenting with those.
So yeah, that's, that's my number two.
And number three, and I think this one really is pushing the boundaries of what constitutes
2020 dark matter.
Oh fuck yeah.
It was that 2019.
I think it was 2019.
I think it was like, yeah, I didn't get it until 2020.
I don't think I got it until 2020 or more accurately, I didn't start using the shit out
of it until 2020.
The, the thing that I think like, like, that I still really enjoy is the fact that I am,
it still shocks me sometimes, not physically.
Like it's, you know, it is properly grounded, but like there are times where I'm like, I'm
going to send this through here and I've got like a pretty good idea of how it's going
to sound and it does for a second.
And then I just change something slightly and it just goes nuts and it's, and it's like
delightful.
Yeah.
It is like, oh, I didn't know you're going to do this record is because I may not get
this if I, if I cycle power.
Yeah, as far as a fun experiment box and just fucking things up and seeing what happens.
I fucking still love it.
It's got a lot of places to like change the gain stage and distortion to in like different
ways.
That's always a lot of fun with that for me.
Like the sample rate and then the overdrive and then the filter overdrive and there's
a lot of play in there.
And like the way it behaves to CV, depending on, you know, even like even slow CV has this
sort of weird thing.
And then you put in faster, you know, audio rate stuff in there and it just completely
changes the dynamics of everything that it's doing.
Yeah.
So that's my top three.
I think I've covered all of them, at least in an episode.
So that's mine.
Who's next?
Okay.
I'll do mine in reverse order from bronze metal up to gold.
Definitely will give the bronze metal to the sweet 16 from tester act module or the 16
end controller.
Yeah, I should have had a 16 end controller for the 301 way fucking back because that's
like a total game changer for that module.
Changed how I thought about using it in live sets.
It's just fucking indispensable.
It's right into the 301 now.
I originally started with the slate and ash 16 end controller, which was output only.
So it had a USB and then CV and I2C output kind of hated the cable hanging out of the
modular and like having to build like a panel for that and I just didn't fucking like it.
But the sweet 16 I really wanted and had somebody shout out to Pierre Paulo in Italy
who actually built the module for me and was like a fucking pleasure to work with.
Unlike getting the performer built, which I'll talk about a little, but Pierre Paulo
was awesome.
Had that shit like gave me status updates every day about what was going on and had my
modified panel out.
But it has inputs so you can have CV control the actual knobs that are controlling the
301 and you can also do CV to MIDI conversion since it outputs MIDI too.
So I used to have that H9 module.
The I forget what the fuck they were called Northern light module or something like that.
It would control the H9 pedal.
You can do that same thing with this module.
That's like the least interesting thing.
But CV controlling all those knobs on like 301 presets that you have saved and being able
to recall that shit like changes how I patch the whole thing like now I just use modulators
freely during a live set knowing that I can just hook them up to these faders on that
16 and controller and it'll control the 301 shit.
So now it's like oh I need an LFO let me go take that and then patch that in in real
time instead of trying to be like all right this is already dedicated for this one patch.
Yeah 16 and controller fucking mind blowing making like little FM machines with the 301
and just presets now using the faders that's fucking sick.
Yeah that's the third spot game changer definitely love that module.
Number two absolutely the ILabs flux which is blowing my fucking mind right now.
When I preordered well yeah I was on the preorder I was after the Kickstarter I was
on like the last group of people that got in to get a flux module and of course Greg
was going on about it and I was very interested.
I was so worried it was going to be so complicated and take me like off my path but it's not
it's like dead easy to use in a lot of ways and just lets me add like crazy drum fills.
I fucking love it so much that's some cold dead hand shit for me now for sure.
That's the number two easy easy I'm not including the effects aid that could that probably be
number four if I was going to put it on that list that's game changer two.
So yeah the flux I definitely want sitting right next to the Westlake performer which
is absolutely by far number one fucking game changing module for me for the year.
That thing is the fucking best year Iraq sequence I've ever used.
It's the perfect companion to the flux which goes crazier in a different way with the
roles and the ability to do all that shit but the flux is like the best balance of like
a it's like a MIDI box in a modular but not as complicated but still like four CV inputs
that you can route to like all sorts of fucking shit any it's eight tracks any of those tracks
can also just be a CV recorder that you can also fuck with CV so I can just you can have
a envelope sequence that's 64 steps and be like oh I like that I'm just going to record
it into a track of this sequencer and then I can free up this envelope to do something
else and it's also I can play it back now as a preset that kind of changed how I thought
about shit between that and the sweet 16 that like kind of blew my mind thinking about
okay I can have these little parts of performance is saved but it just fucking works to the
Westlake performer there's like a I'm looking right now to remind myself of the features
at the like simulator that's built in JavaScript that's like a full they push out the new
GitHub build and it's also reflected in this test drive thing where you can like use the
module and it's super straightforward I love that it's 64 steps you can hook up a launch
pad to it like innovation launch pad so I have a launch pad mark three that I got and
it lets you just trigger the patterns like Ableton session view and that's also been
like a fucking mind blower for me because it makes it so easy to like sketch out a performance
I can just go to the third session and the next time I boot up the modular it's going
to come up on that third session and I can just write the next part and be like oh yeah
I also wrote part two last night it corresponds to track one of my ER 301 and it's been easy
to sketch out a live set with that shit and you can go into like pattern mode to and
also just change like edit the 64 steps and like any of the pages on the performer and
it has like no probability and all that shit you can edit any of the pages on the like
pad grid which sometimes is useless like sometimes it's like gate length on a track which is
kind of cool but it's like why am I setting gate length on a track with a slider it's
like that's kind of novel but you know I've done it a few times too but it's also got
the note conditions from the electron which is what really sold me on this because it's
it's like they decided to make an eloquence or and then destroy it with more features
and also make it open source which is what they did it is if you have an eloquence or
you should probably get this because it's better to it's easier to use honestly cheaper
to that it's way cheaper I saved money by selling it it has all the MIDI input shit in
a smaller space without having the expander which I will say on the eloquence and I may
have touched on this the last time that my modular like fucked up one day because that
expander became detached after I took it somewhere to get a cabin and came back this
doesn't have that problem also like that grid on that eloquence is kind of useless it's
kind of eye candy there's like a eye candy mode on the eloquence that lets you get to
that and realize like it's kind of pointless to see all those steps at once you just want
to drill into the thing you're looking at and using you and go to the next track that
was useless not to derail your conversation but yeah that was one of my I recently sold
my yield sequencer as well and that was one of the main things when I bought it I didn't
realize that you couldn't change views of any sort you're locked to the to looking at
all those tracks on that grid and you can't do like a zoom in on a specific track and
like blow it out so that you can see like maybe 64 steps of track one all at once or
anything like that like it's just not there and I'm like this is kind of this is kind
of dumb you know it's like yeah and I like dump sequencers but that was like to dumb
for me I was like shit because then it dumps everything else to that tiny eloquence or
screen where you had to get all the info right and though Westlake just has one fucking
big OLED with all that shit it's like a twenty five dollar OLED it's not a hard one
to get and they're fucking beautiful and you can get different colors it's like you can
choose how you want the sequence to work it's all open source if I didn't say that so it's
kind of fucking sick you can build it for 200 bucks if you want to do surface mount soldering
where you can pay some techno asshole to build you one and then fuck around with you for
a while to never ship you the rotary encoder and give you a broken LED and ship it to you
in a shitty box hypothetically speaking I won't name I won't name the person that who
theoretically could have built that for me in New York but fuck you it's I don't care
that was a bullshit experience you can see the reverb common if you really want to find
out who because the sequencer is that fucking good that it was still a no regrets I fucking
love that thing that kind of ruled out that in the flux I don't see much room for other
sequencers I sold the varigates in the eloquencer to get some other modules and the West like
was part of that because I paid like 400 for it in the end have it built which was fine
it does work like his soldering was good it's cool but the module is fucking hype like I
love building sets with it I love someone referred to it as like a battleship sequencer
like there are all these sequencers like that that are kind of like super complicated like
the vector and all these big battleship sequencers I think it's the easiest one to use there's
like no learning curve I haven't even looked at the manual for it that much kind of like
the flux to you don't need the manual for that too much either once you figure out how
to get around that thing they're both fucking sick as hell like those of those have been
like the top two for the year easy wow I'm intrigued by it but also intimidated like I
watched a couple YouTube videos and just seemed like just seemed like really many diving to
me and I was like this looks like something that Nick would dig for sure but would probably
I'd probably be struggling to wrap my head around for quite some time to get familiar
with it but I definitely am intrigued by the power of it especially the whole like Euclidean
areas that you can dive into and things like that I was like that looks pretty red yeah
the randomization the Euclidean shit because really like there aren't many combos it's
the same combo on every screen actually which is the nice thing okay and that gets you to
the extra stuff that you want to get to but it's it's really simple I don't know I'm broken
because I'm used to like absorbing these fucking battleship sequencers at this point
right owned most of them there aren't many I haven't fucking tried I never got used to
the varigate like that the varigate was like that for me it always felt like I had to remember
all these fucking combos to get to things and that's what killed it for me that and all
the bugs that they never fixed and but not having any kind of screen on the varigate meant
that you had them understand all of the blinking lights that were blinking at you and how to
get into the real-time record mode and like I would overwrite shit all the time by doing
it wrong and it fucking drove me nuts yeah the the West Lick is dope I fucking like it
it's it's the easiest one for me it feels less divey than the eloquence or that felt
like really divey to me I hated it getting to like all the options for the MIDI and shit
like that it was hard whereas this is like nice to it's you can just take any tracks output
and route it to another track too so you can have like a shape track another cool thing
is like the CV recorder track also functions like a massive if you use that VST style like
shape design so you can just like make like give me six saws on each of these steps and
then they'll affect all these parameters and you can route that to like the clock divisions
of another track and just do all this internal routing to like you can get massively fucked
up sequences from it deeper than anything I've ever used you can have a lot of CV affecting
how the sequencers operate to the point where it's just IDM fucking shit show for sure that's
one of the best things about it the vector got there and that the vector was super drivey
for me in a way that I absolutely hated and I think though West Lick is a lot easier
than the vector for sure the vector had roads that I never attempted to drive down there
was a few paths that I was well versed with and I was like okay as long as I know how
to do XYZ I'm I'm content with that but it got to the point where like due to like all
the updates and stuff like even my XYZ started getting more convoluted and changed and you
know buried in other functionalities and stuff and I'm like this thing I feel like an an
asshole for owning it at this point because it can do all this and I'm just using it for
this you're taking you're taking your Ferrari to go get groceries right take a Ferrari to
go go to the fucking grocery store it just this is too much sequencer for me you know
I mean I was like it has a few tricks up its leaves that I really like that I don't think
are in other sequencers but it's just I hated the fact that I wasn't I was so under utilizing
it I was like I should sell this and get a different sequencer and I hate to they still
haven't gotten the sync input to work on the vector correctly no last I chat yeah that
was still buggy part of the thing with the performer to and this is upsetting about the
eloquencers you know he did like that beta at the start of quarantine and there hasn't
been an update to it since even though it was like oh there's just one more thing I've
got to fix like half a year ago and I was at the point where unless it's open source I
don't want your fucking sequencer anymore I want it so that I can maintain it and so that
I can understand the code and then it can't be like a fucking abandoned where because I
just don't trust I don't trust these people to finish the work it's too hard but yeah that's
my top three the performer is easily top one for sure that's awesome I'm glad you're digging
it and getting a lot of use out of it I'm also glad to hear that it's working well with
the flux and there's like a I can't tell which ones the ego which ones the id the super ego
but it sounds like they're working together to form a cogent consciousness yeah the way
you can do the drum roll programming in the flux is just brilliant that shit is just fucking
genius yeah I try telling you dude but it was like no way for me to yeah to describe it
that's why I just kept saying like all it'll handle rules man because like I didn't know
how else to like explain like it's one of those things you just got experience it was
the compression thing is when I got it to when I realized because I wanted to um I didn't
know if you could make rolls longer than a step and then I realized with the compression
that's how you can kind of stretch that shit out then it was like boom or condense it yeah
yeah or condense it yep that's the crazy thing is everything about it can go both ways you
know I mean you can have sequences within sequences or like a full sequence on a single
step and just blow it out you know like it's fucking ridiculous yeah it's yeah it's awesome
you killed it that's fucking so good Greg yes you do you have a top three you can you
can pick ascending or descending whichever or yeah I'm gonna I'm gonna follow next lead
and start in reverse order you could do it like a binary tree and start in the middle
no start it too so I have a tie for three for the bronze middle or I don't even want
to call it bronze because like my favorites right now I think are like all gold you know
what I mean it's like they're all like top picks right now like I'm very happy with all
them you don't get to say that you love all your show you've got it you've got to decide
yeah so number three I have a tie with cosmatorronics cosmics and WMD carbon which we've talked
about we've talked about both of these modules in our you know most recent episodes so I'm
not gonna go on and on about them in depth again but I just will say that like both of
them are integral for my patching lately like the cosmics and its ability to just route
auxiliary shit and then come back in and apply multiple levels of saturation and you know
just I'm getting a lot of use out of it is what I'll say and I absolutely love the distortion
it's the closest thing to like what I used to be able to do with you know an old Mackie
within a modular that have been you know in a long time I like that it gets me there in
fact it's it's not only my favorite like mixer module at the moment it's my favorite distortion
module like I just I love the grime that I can get out of it and the balance that I
can get with it as well knowing knowing you for so long that is there's zero surprise
and that is yeah that is how you've used mixtures in the past yeah mixers that were other people
would have thrown out right I want a cos mix that's one of the few modules that I want
right now but they're really fucking hard to find they are I had to go across the ocean
to get the two that I have in my rack currently and cough up extra for shipping it was like
thirty bucks a piece to ship but I wondered it that badly that I coughed it up twice you
know what I mean I was like fuck it it's worth it I imagine you meant that you just looked
overseas on the internet but in my mind for a split second I'm imagining you know I took
a fucking ship yeah like a fucking ship and like you would like fight see like sea monsters
and I hit away in a big connex box and I got scurvy at one point I had to eat rats yeah
but yeah between the cos mix and the W&D carbon I getting a lot of saturation combos out of
the two you know and the wave folding and just the fact that it's a multi mode good sounding
filter in such a small package like it's it's um it's my go to at this point I need
to have more of them in my rig I still only have one because I'm trying to only buy used
right now to save a few bucks when I can and I've only seen one pop up used so far so I
mean I'm like likewise I carbon is in almost every patch I have and I think maybe that's
why it didn't make my list is I've just kind of forgot that it's there it's like the back
of my hand in a lot of cases it's the perfect utility filter I mean like it's it does everything
it's supposed to do does everything I want to do I would just stop thinking about it like
everything we said in the original episodes talking about it still stand mm-hmm yeah I
love it I love the performance features they put into it too it's awesome I think all of
us mentioned that we've been digging into the wave folding more like I know yeah originally
I didn't think I would even be touching the wave folding in there because I had enough
things to do that and I just thought okay that's a nice novelty that they threw in there that
didn't you know that it didn't need to but the fact that a sire is cool but no I'm like
actually finding myself utilizing it quite a bit now especially in combination with my
plates modules it just sounds good going through that wave folder but that's yeah that's my
three it's a tie between those two number two also was the flux temporal sequencer it changed
the game as far as gate sequencing goes just like I had hoped it would had a lot had a
lot invested in it whenever whenever I did the kickstarter you know I mean like I refrained
from buying other gate sequencers for several months because I had a lot riding on the flux
that I hoped that it would be able to fulfill and it has like ten times over like it's it
does more than I expected it to you know it's definitely a worthwhile investment and then
number one the poly and tracker which I have a lot to say about to be clear we've not really
dove into it in an episode quite yet we've talked about it here and there I don't think
we've done the deep dive on this not because I had I think the last time we did an episode
I'm I don't even think I had it yet or it was on the way yeah yeah and yeah I since the
last episode I finally got one and I spent a lot of quality time with it over the last
two months I think it's been it's just a fucking amazing piece of kit in my opinion it's the
sampler slash sequencer like powerhouse that I've been looking for for a long time
I didn't expect to enjoy it as much as I am like we said before I was never a big tracker
guy you know I mean like I when it came to like my DAW I was always using piano roll to
sequence everything you know and I was mainly using reason FL studio and audio mulch I was
never really never really got into a tracker every time I'd mess with one it just felt
like too weird and spreadsheet like and you know full of arcane hex symbols and shit
I'm like I don't know what the fuck's going on you know I mean like I like modular layouts
you know I'd like the interface of reason I like the modularity of audio mulch and I'd
liked just the layout of FL studio as a sampler you know like I would just drop multiple sample
tracks together use piano roll layer them up done deal this thing kind of feels like
a really refreshing change of pace and but also not all that unfamiliar like it's I don't
know it's it's interesting so it doesn't have the sort of like foreboding density of like
renoise or like the thing that sort of like turned you off the tracker software I don't
know what turned me off about it honestly like it's just never really appealed to me you
know what I mean like I just it wasn't what I started out in and I never felt the need
to readjust to learn it and I was like right I'm getting by just fine using you know piano
rolls I don't I don't need to sequence vertically yeah we talked about this in the past because
like to me like had the opposite approach like starting on like fast tracker to and like
trackers click with my brain and then renoise was the massive super upgrade to all of them
so that's why I was really really interested to hear what you had to say about the like what
you had to say with it from like a perspective of not just being like super in the trackers yeah
I'm super into this one so you know I mean I can't really compare to renoise and things like that I
I've glanced at renoise and stuff like that I've used them very very briefly so like my familiarity
with it is like next to nothing I just knew that like I was struggling to understand what
meant what you know on each step whereas with the poly end I'm grasping it very well and I haven't
even looked at the manual yet and I'm making like tracks on it all I did like for Halloween I went
up to a cabin in New York for the weekend by Lake Erie and I took it with me I was like this will
be a good opportunity maybe you know at night to start to learn this thing when I get bored I
just threw it in my laptop bag with some headphones and that was it and on my phone I pulled up like
a couple tutorial videos that they had on the poly end site and I looked at a couple videos that
Stasma the Jungle Christ had posted on like his Instagram and YouTube showing off some of the
crazy shit he was doing and like just from you know glancing at those videos I learned enough to
start making tracks on it and I might be missing a few things that is detailed in the manual but
so far I feel like I feel like I'm navigating everything you know I mean like there's not much
that is a mystery to me or things that I'm just like not using because I don't understand them
like I feel like I'm taking advantage of pretty much everything that's in there currently and
it's it's pretty cool the speed at which I can work on it is the main appealing thing to me like I
find myself not even using the jog wheel much at this point like I'm kind of just pounding away on
the directional keys and doing the shortcuts already yeah it's I can move quick on it like very quickly
now how the words where do you see this residing in your overall workflow either at home or in a
live set already it's become like the heart of my setup like I'm using it for sequencing and sampling
in the whole nine yards I currently my sequencing options are limited because I only have as far as
MIDI to CV goes that um busy circuits mm MIDI module which is only two channels um so I have two
tracks dedicated all times now on the poly end like going into the air and just um sequencing
things in the modular I have a um 64 pixels uh CV OCD OCD yeah on the way um that was awesome
that'll give me a lot more functionality and free up some rack space as far as like MIDI to CV
goes and then from the once I have that I can pretty much program my entire like drum tracks you
know on there alongside whatever I have going on like sound and sample wise on the poly end like
I've been just dumping files from that I've recorded from the modular into it and just sequencing it
and um slicing it things like that it's like everything that I wanted to like about bitbox and
octatrack and shit about but never really jived with um I'm I can do it on this thing and very
quickly um it has some limitations that I can complain about but even those are minor um
the main being it's only has one stereo output um you have no ability to route like multiple
stereo outs to other tracks or to other effects you know processors and things like that you just
got your main stereo out which is a bit of a bummer um but you can there is an on board function to
multi-track like bounce down each track separately to to waves and then you can
port that in wherever but oh that's cool it is that's how I'm using utilizing it currently but
still it would have been nice to be able to route through multiple hardware paths of effects in
real time uh the samples are mono only that's kind of a bummer um anything stereo that I put in
air gets auto converted to mono so I don't have to convert it myself that's kind of nice but still
um and then three the amount of project RAM available it's a little limited um I'm not going
to be dumping like full stems into this thing and using it like I would my teraz um which is
going to limit um its usefulness for me live what is what is the limit I don't remember the exact
number I for some reason I think I'm thinking like 600 megs or 900 megs or something like that
I could be way off track but that's just the number that's in my head um and there's a max
length of time per sample too so like I can't have full like stems going in there anything like
that alongside with like live you know sampling stuff have to keep it to relatively smaller sample
files or slices but it's more than like a second it's not like it's not like literally a single hit
no okay like you can like I've already made some breaks on the modular and dumped them in there and
I think stasma also had like a default sound pack included in there there's a little bunch of
different like amen breaks that you can practice slicing on and shit like that and then the fourth
and final like minor complaint is the it only comes with two dongles yet there's four ports
which is a little weird to me like you have to pick and choose what you're going to use the two
dongles for that they gave you either you can either use it for your midi in or your midi out and
then the audio ones for your audio in and audio out so like can you get more and use them all
you can and they're expensive like the official ones from polyan cost 20 bucks a pop
and I ordered them and this led to a weird email exchange with them so on their website they
advertise these dongles of being corded braids high quality and you know they have the polyan
logos on them so that like you don't mix them up with the five other billion dongles that you
have sitting around you know you know it's the right type you know what machine it goes to
and i'm like fair enough i'm sold fuck it so i bought the two more so that i could utilize all
four ports on the thing and the midi dongle that i got wasn't braided and it didn't have the logo
on it and i was like what the fuck so i held it up to one of the ones that i've gotten from
amazon recently the generic ass like two dollar midi dongle yeah identical i was like did they
seriously just sell me a generic dongle for 20 dollars so i emailed them and i was like what the
hell and they shipped me the correct one which was nice um and they said it was a warehouse mix up
which i guess shit happens fair enough um but still it's it felt a little weird it seems weird
that they even had those at the ready do you know what i mean like why were those even in arms reach
i don't know because you can't buy a generic one from their store you can only buy their
so i'm like i was confused by why yeah so but they sorted it out and now i have the official dongles
but um i i feel like you know this thing only has four ports like why not include
dongles for all four ports like i feel like that should be a given um it should be
but other than those four minor complaints i'm like in love with this thing like i don't see it
i i don't see it not being in every patch that i make right now like so do you see a scenario where
you have a second one i've already considered that yeah um i have to be honest yeah because i mean
it is a little limited and it would be hard to bounce from track to track in like a live performance
especially if you're doing something kind of broken up or you're shifting tempos and things
like that like i feel like it would be beneficial to do it old school break core style and have two
of them and maybe a dj mix room between the two that you can fade and bounce between or you know
i mean have one maybe focused on drum duties and then your second one focused on like your melodic
elements or things like that that way you can shift things around more um and for the price and
the size you could i feel like yeah it's it's kind of a no-brainer you know i mean like you get two of
these things especially if you're getting them second hand for lower the cost and you know a
laptop or two NPCs or two terazas or whatever to octa tracks for that matter you know i mean like
i feel like the price for the functionality that you get out of this thing is kind of insane and
plus you already have the suitcase that has two electribes and a shitty dj mixer between them
ready you just take the electribes out you put these two the two polyantrakers and you're ready to go
it's so compact when i went to the cab and i literally just slid it into my laptop bag on top
of my laptop like it just slid right in there like nothing like it is very thin very small
you know i i can definitely see these being utilized live a lot um it just the fact that it
has that limited project ram available that i'm gonna have to figure out like what to do it with
like i'm probably not gonna sell my teraz anytime soon like i can see this being utilized with the
teraz or just having two of these or something but oh the only thing i find which is not really a
complaint but just lacking is the send effects since i've bought it they've already updated it
the firmware i think three times and in one of those updates it implemented the overdrive which is nice
but that's the third effect now compared to the delay and the reverb that they added in an update
also so yeah you only got three send effects i would like to see a lot more that way you can get
into more sound design territories with this um they have more effects on board if you're going
to use the sample editor but that's not live that's destructive editing once you're in like a sample
editing mode um so yeah i'd like to see some of those effects ported over into like their
send effects for you know live processing but yeah that's my number one wow that's awesome
also.
[Music]
It's telling people I hate Christmas music.
[Laughter]
This is going to be a bitter episode, boys.
Strap in.
[Laughter]
This year sucked.
There's a lot of bomb bugging going on here.
So wait, what three spirits are going to visit us to change our mind?
[Laughter]
Every time someone patches rings in the clouds and angel gets their wings.
Oh my God.
[Laughter]